Dafny 4.0 blog post (#2)
dafny-lang/blog: _posts/2023-03-02-dafny-4-released.markdown

* [Dafny on GitHub](https://github.com/dafny-lang/dafny)

## Dafny 4.0 Release Highlights
We have added a lot of exciting new features and enhancements to the Dafny language and ecosystem since Dafny 3.0. Here are some of the recent highlights. Some of these features have been available in prior releases, but are now enabled by default in 4.0.

### Better visual verification feedback
Dafny has always fused together programming and verification, placing both of them in the IDE. In Dafny 4.0, we have added a large number of visual enhancements to the IDE, giving you more feedback than ever, without you having to search through menus to get it.
In the animated screenshot, where we repair a performant but incorrect implementation for a specification-friendly Fibonacci function, you can see the following features we implemented:
* [Gutter icons](https://dafny.org/latest/DafnyRef/DafnyRef#sec-gutter-highlights) to indicate per-line verification status.
  They help understanding what's next without having to look at the diagnostic window. When it turns green, you know you're done.
* [Hover widget](https://github.com/dafny-lang/dafny/pull/1946) that contain the following information:

>   * Error link: Link to documentation about how to fix verification errors (on `Error`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Link to documentation about how to fix verification errors (on `Error`)
```
For symmetry with the other bullets.

>   * Resource usage: How much resources Dafny used to verify the [assertion batch](https://dafny.org/latest/DafnyRef/DafnyRef#sec-assertion-batches)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Measurement of the resources Dafny used to verify the [assertion batch](https://dafny.org/latest/DafnyRef/DafnyRef#sec-assertion-batches)
```
Also for symmetry, and a reduction in redundancy.

  * How many assertions there are in the current function
  * Positive feedback messages to indicate you what Dafny proved under the hood
  * And much more not shown here (help when verification is slow, slowest batches when hovering the function name)

![Fixing a performant part of a function-by-method in Dafny, using visual verification feedback](/blog/assets/images/Dafny4IDEFeatures.gif)

### Command Line Interface enhancements

> Dafny’s command line interface (CLI) has been fully revamped. The CLI is now POSIX compliant. Many of the existing options have been simplified and their names and values have been made more intuitive. Options related to common use cases are now grouped under commands. For example, `dafny run MyProgram.dfy` will verify, compile, and run `MyProgram`. The number of relevant options per command is small making it easy for users to get an overview of what a command can do, and preventing users from applying invalid combinations of options. Options that are only useful for debugging the internals of the Dafny language are hidden by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dafny’s command line interface (CLI) has been fully revamped. The CLI is now POSIX compliant. Many of the existing options have been simplified and their names and values have been made more intuitive. Options related to common use cases are now grouped under commands. For example, `dafny run MyProgram.dfy` will verify, compile, and run `MyProgram`. The number of relevant options per command is small making it easy for users to get an overview of what a command can do, and preventing users from applying invalid combinations of options. Options that are only useful for debugging the internals of the Dafny language are hidden by default (but easily shown by supplying an additional option).
```

Dafny supports an experimental feature for automatic test generation for statement-level code coverage. The tests contain runtime checks compiled directly from (non-ghost) postconditions. Compared to prior versions, Dafny 4.0 can generate tests both for methods and functions with support for all basic types, collections, algebraic datatypes, class types, and type parameters as well as limited support for traits, function types, and tuples. To invoke test generation using the new command line interface, execute `dafny generate-tests`. For more information please read this [README](https://github.com/dafny-lang/dafny/blob/master/Source/DafnyTestGeneration/README.md).

### New language features
Compared to Dafny 3.0, Dafny 4.0 includes the following language improvements:
* `for` loops,
* `continue` statements,
* parameter passing via name bindings,
* parameter default values,
* `function by method` declarations,
* ghost tuples,
* ghost allocation of class instances,
* ghost datatype constructors,
* `<-` syntax for quantified variables,
* disjunctive `case ... | ... =>` patterns,
* opaque constants, and

> * command-line arguments access from `Main`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* command-line argument access from `Main`.
```

### Documentation
The language reference manual has been updated for all features in version 4.0. We have also improved the wording of error messages, and we added an [error catalog](https://dafny.org/latest/HowToFAQ/Errors) where you can get more information and helpful hints about error messages.

## Backward compatibility considerations

### Functions compiled by default

> If you’ve used Dafny before, the first change you’ll notice is how functions are declared in Dafny 4.0. Dafny distinguishes *methods*, which consist of code with possible side effects, from *functions*, which, unlike the “functions” in C or JavaScript, are like mathematical functions without side effects—you evaluate a function twice in Dafny and you’ll get the same value. Functions in Dafny were first used mostly in specifications, so they were by default *ghost*, which means the compiler erases them. However, because so many Dafny programs find functions to be useful also in compiled code, we have simplified how functions are declared. In Dafny 4.0, use the keyword `function` to declare a compiled function and use the keywords `ghost function` to declare a ghost function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’ve used Dafny before, the first change you’ll notice is how functions are declared in Dafny 4.0. Dafny distinguishes *methods*, which consist of code with possible side effects, from *functions*, which, unlike the “functions” in C or JavaScript, are like mathematical functions without side effects — you evaluate a function twice in Dafny and you’ll get the same value. Functions in Dafny were first used mostly in specifications, so they were by default *ghost*, which means the compiler erases them. However, because so many Dafny programs find functions to be useful also in compiled code, we have simplified how functions are declared. In Dafny 4.0, use the keyword `function` to declare a compiled function and use the keywords `ghost function` to declare a ghost function.
```

**New Book!** The new book [_Program Proofs_](https://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262546232/program-proofs/) by Dafny creator, Rustan Leino, teaches you how to prove programs correct and uses Dafny throughout. It will be released by MIT Press in just a few days.

For additional information on Dafny, please see:
* [Manual Installation](https://github.com/dafny-lang/dafny/wiki/INSTALL) (or using the [VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dafny-lang.ide-vscode))
* [Dafny Reference Manual](https://dafny.org/latest/DafnyRef/DafnyRef)
* [Dafny on GitHub](https://github.com/dafny-lang/dafny)

> ## Dafny 4.0 Release Highlights

Reviewer: The headings seem backwards to me. I'd make this one `#` and the following one `##`, and similar throughout.

* [Dafny on GitHub](https://github.com/dafny-lang/dafny)

## Dafny 4.0 Release Highlights

> If you haven’t had a look at Dafny since 3.0, you’re missing out on a ton of exciting new features and enhancements! Here are some of the recent highlights since Dafny 3.0. Some of these features have been available in prior releases, but are now enabled by default in 4.0.

Reviewer 2: This first stmt reads a bit strange to me (as some of these were not on by default). How about phrase it as "We have added a lot of exciting new features and enhancements to the Dafny language and ecosystem since Dafny 3.0. Here are some of the recent highlights."
